API Questions:

1.API stands for Application Programming Interface. 
  API testing is a type of software testing where application programming interfaces (APIs) 
  are tested to determine if they meet expectations for functionality, reliability, 
  performance, and security.
 
https status code:

200 OK: The request has succeeded. The information returned with the response is dependent on the method used in the request.
301 Moved Permanently: The requested resource has been permanently moved to a new location, and the new URL is provided in the response.
400 Bad Request: The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed request syntax, invalid request message framing).
404 Not Found: The server cannot find the requested resource. This is often used when the requested URL is not found on the server.
500 Internal Server Error: A generic error message indicating that the server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.

difference between json and xml:

json:
JSON data has a data type , light weight	
JSON types: string, number, array, Boolean, null ,Object	
Data is readily accessible as JSON objects	
JSON is supported by most browsers.	
Retrieving value is easy	
A fully automated way of DE serialization/serialization JavaScript.	
Native support for object.	
It supports only UTF-8 encoding.	
It doesn't support comments.	
JSON files are easy to read as compared to XML.	
It is less secured.

xml:
XML data is type less
All XML data should be string
XML data needs to be parsed.
Cross-browser XML parsing can be tricky
Retrieving value is difficult
Developers have to write JavaScript code to serialize/de-serialize from XML
The object has to be express by conventions - mostly missed use of attributes and elements.
It supports various encoding.
It supports comments.
XML documents are relatively more difficult to read and interpret.
It is more secure than JSON.

Differences between SOAP and Restful webservices:

SOAP  WEB SERVICES:	
SOAP is a protocol	
Simple Object Access Protocol	
SOAP can't use REST Web services, it is a protocol	
SOAP expose the  services (Business Logic) via .WSDL file     	
SOAP designed using too much standards	
SOAP permits XML data format only	
SOAP requires more bandwidth and resources	
SOAP d¬efines its own security	
Less preferred than REST

REST WEB SERVICES:
REST is Architectural style
Representational State Transfer
REST can use soap as well since it is concept
REST expose the service (Business Logic) via URI 
REST does not define too much standards
REST permits different data formats- Plain text, html, JSON, XML ,JS
REST requires less bandwidth and resource than SOAP
Inherits security measures from underlined transport Protocol (ouath-1.0  outh-2.0 , Bearer token)
REST more preferred than SOAP

Difference between put and patch:

-> Put - complete update resource inside the server
-> Patch - partial update the update resource inside the server

Test snippet:

-> postman provides java script snippets for validation of API test cases
-> Every script has to be validated for status code, response time, response body etc to ensure
   the functionality of the API
-> to verify status code-----status code 200
pm.test("project created successfully with 201 status ", function () {
    pm.response.to.have.status(201);
});
-> to verify response Time-------response time less than 200ms
pm.test("Response time is less than 200ms", function () {
    pm.expect(pm.response.responseTime).to.be.below(2);
});
-> To verify the status code name------- status code name has a string
pm.test("Status code name has string", function () {
    pm.response.to.have.status("Created");
});
-> To check the expected Data in a specific location of the response ------ response body-json value check
pm.test("Get All projects", function () {
    var jsonData = pm.response.json();
    pm.expect(jsonData.data[0].first_Name).to.eql("George");
});
-> To set Global Variable ---- set collection variable
pm.globalVariables.set("randomKey", ran);

Types of Authentication supported by postman:

1.Basic Auth:-
   - It consists of Username and password
   - API developer will provide username and password
   - Minimal security as password is readable
   - useranme and password can be shared easily

2.Bearer Token:-
   - Bearer token is generated with the help of username and password
   - Token is in non readable format
   - Token can be shared - disadvantage
   - Token is given by API developer 
   - Token can be generated and used multiple times
   - Token can be used untill its expired or untill the API developer changes it
   - Its secured compared to basic Auth



      

